# Version 1.5.0: "Astral Acorn" Release

With this release comes a level of flexibility to Survival Industry that has not been present before; many of the previously-required mods can now safely be disabled, allowing a player to custom-make their own Survival Industry.   Do you want a hardcore game?  A line of hardcore options are waiting for your inclusion.  Don't like Metallurgy?  Don't add it.  Think Applied Energistics is too overpowered?  You can remove it.  Don't really want to use ExU pipes or RotaryCraft Item pumps?  Buildcraft pipes and Logistics pipes are now options, and Ender IO has been included by default into the pack!

Additional features have been added to replace lost features with the Tinker's Construct purge.  The tools now no longer disappear when broken, and they can be repaired in both the crafting grid and the anvil (if unenchanted, at 0 XP cost!).  Armor can only be repaired on the anvil.  The flint chisel is now part of the core, and is joined by the bedrock chisel.  

Pam's Weee! flowers have been added to allow farming of dyes, and several custom dyes have been added to replace vanilla dyes with multiple uses.  White flowers, for example, cannot make bonemeal to fertilize themselves and other plants, and the green dye does not double as pipe sealant.

There are some mods that will remain required, due to the fact that they dictate the game's level of progression, as well as the theme of the game itself, but, for the most part, people with lower-end systems can now enjoy their very own Survival Industries, as can those who really want to bulk up.

NOTE: Mods indicating a browser download will automatically install from your Downloads folder, but will first open a browser to the mod's page, and require you to download the mod yourself (mainly due to license restrictions).

Also... um...  We... miiiiight have... ACCIDENTALLY ... kinda sorta... let Herobrine in... Yyyyyeah.

## Mod Changes

### Mods Added:

* Bookshelf
* Ender IO
* VoxelMap
* Buildcraft (Transport, Silicon)
* Logistics Pipes
* Territory Zone
* Project:Red (Transmission)
* Ruins (Structure Spawning System)
* Greymerk's Roguelike Dungeons
* Realistic Terrain Generation
* Alternate Terrain Generation
* Climate Control
* Mo'Villages
* Iguana (Vanilla) Tweaks
* EnviroMine
* Harder Underground
* Infernal Mobs
* Special Mobs
* Mutant Creatures (Browser Download Required)
* Mo'Creatures (Browser Download Required)
* Lycanite's Mobs
* FastCraft
* BetterFPS
* OptiFine (Browser Download Required)
* Opis
* Perfect Spawn (for servers only)

### Mods Disabled by Default:

* JourneyMap
* JourneyMap Server
* Nether Ores
* Refined Relocation
* Special Mobs
* Buildcraft (Transport, Silicon)
* Logistics Pipes
* Territory Zone
* Project:Red (Transmission)
* Ruins (Structure Spawning System)
* Greymerk's Roguelike Dungeons
* Realistic Terrain Generation
* Alternate Terrain Generation
* Climate Control
* Mo'Villages
* Iguana (Vanilla) Tweaks
* EnviroMine
* Harder Underground
* Infernal Mobs
* Special Mobs
* Mutant Creatures (Browser Download Required)
* Mo'Creatures (Browser Download Required)
* Lycanite's Mobs
* FastCraft
* BetterFPS
* Opis
* OptiFine (Browser Download Required)
* MineTweaker
* ModTweaker

### Mods Upgraded:

* Hardlib (11.18.0a -> 12.20.0a)
* Harder Wildlife (11.18.0a -> 12.20.0a)
* MrTJPCore (1.1.0.31 -> 1.1.0.32)
* Ore Flowers (2.0.0 -> 3.0.1c)
* AE2 Stuff (0.5.0.56 -> 0.5.1.61)
* AgriCraft (1.4.5 -> 1.4.6)
* Antique Atlas (4.2.7 -> 4.2.10)
* Another One Bites the Dust (2.8.4 -> 2.9.0)
* Applied Energistics 2 (rv2-stable-10 -> rv3-beta-4)
* Buildcraft (Core, Builders, Energy) (7.1.13 -> 7.1.14)
* Buildcraft Compat (7.1.2 -> 7.1.3)
* CoFH Core (3.0.3-303 -> 3.1.0B1-322)
* Crafting Tweaks (1.0.58 -> 1.0.62)
* Enchanting Plus (3.0.2-d -> 4.0.0.74)
* Ender Utilities (0.4.3 -> 0.4.4)
* Extra Cells (2.3.3b162 -> 2.3.7b176)
* Fossils & Archaeology Revival (7.2 -> 7.2.1)
* Gendustry (1.6.3.132 -> 1.6.4.134)
* Invasion (1.1.3 -> 1.1.5)
* McJtyLib (1.8.0 -> 1.8.1)
* Metallurgy (4.0.6.80 -> 4.0.8.97)
* MineTweaker (3.0.9C -> 3.0.10B)
* NEI Addons (1.12.14.40 -> 1.12.15.41)
* NEI Integration (1.1.0 -> 1.1.1)
* OpenBlocks (1.4.4 -> 1.5)
* OpenComputers (1.5.20.38 -> 1.5.21.41)
* Pam's HarvestCraft (1.7.10La -> 1.7.10Lb)
* Project: Red (Base, Compat, Fabrication, Integration, Lighting, World) (4.7.0pre9.92 -> 4.7.0pre10.93)
* RFTools (4.13 -> 4.20)
* Somnia (1.4.8.54 -> 1.4.8.55)
* Storage Drawers (1.7.2 -> 1.7.5)
* si.core (1.4.0 -> 1.5.0)
* ToolUtilities (0.0.1-10 -> 0.0.1-16)
* Waila Harvestability (1.1.5 -> 1.1.6)

### Mods Removed:

* Java 8 Checker
* BiblioWoods Forestry Edition (Forestry has "framed" versions of their furniture, which can have any block's texture applied to them!)
* Wooden Buckets (si.core has more completely-implemented wooden buckets for water and milk)

## Configuration Changes:

* All tweaks are now done by the Survival Industry Core mod and Survival Industry resource pack.
* Some of Pam's bee products were still showing up in NEI.  Removed them.
* Ore has been overhauled.  Ores are rarer, but in much, *much* larger quantities.  Pipe, sparse, and vertical veins have also been replaced with sparse ore clouds, which are also further apart, but also much larger than the veins.  Yes, this includes rare items like diamonds and emeralds; if you find a cloud of those ores, you'll be set for a good long while... although you'll have to do some work mining them!
* Overhauled custom item system.
  * Several materials have been added to replace anything missing if Metallurgy is removed.
  * Weapons and tools (sword, axe, pickaxe, shovel, hoe) have been made for each of the above materials.
  * Armor (helmet, chestplate, leggings, and boots) have been made for each of the above materials.
     * Among the additional materials, aluminum tools, weapons, and armor have been added to the game.  Now Aluminum has a use beyond just ElectriCraft wires!
  * Fully-implemented Wooden Buckets have been added using si.core (can only be used with water and milk).
  * JeffPeng added his favorite breakfast.  (Personally, I worry for him. -reteo)
  * si.flintchisel has been replaced with this mod; chisels made from flint and bedrock have been included.
* EnderIO has been integrated with RotaryCraft.
  * In particular, all alloying recipes are now handled by the blast furnace.
  * Higher-end materials are gated behind different temperatures.
* Custom dyes for white, brown, blue, black, and green have been added.
  * These dyes do not include alternate abilities, such as fertilizer or pipe sealant.
  * Weee! Flowers recipes have been modified to use these dyes.
* All tools now remain in the inventory when broken.
  * The tools can be repaired using the crafting grid (requires 110% material cost for full repair)
  * Unenchanted tools can be repaired for 0 XP cost on the anvil at a reduced material cost.
  * The anvil can also repair armor.
  * Chisels can also be repaired, either on the anvil or in the crafting grid.
* Enchantment tables have been reskinned, and their US localization altered, to ensure they meet with the tech theme of the pack.  The recipe has also been altered for the recommended pack configuration.
